“Of dissolving with her, and being more happy still!” he answered.
“Do you suppose I dread any change of that sort? I expected such a
transformation on raising the lid, but I’m better pleased that it should
not commence till I share it. Besides, unless I had received a distinct
impression of her passionless features, that strange feeling would hardly have
been removed. It began oddly. You know I was wild after she died; and
eternally, from dawn to dawn, praying her to return to me her spirit! I have a
strong faith in ghosts: I have a conviction that they can, and do, exist among
us! The day she was buried, there came a fall of snow. In the evening I went to
the churchyard. It blew bleak as winter—all round was solitary. I
didn’t fear that her fool of a husband would wander up the glen so late;
and no one else had business to bring them there. Being alone, and conscious
two yards of loose earth was the sole barrier between us, I said to
myself—‘I’ll have her in my arms again! If she be cold,
I’ll think it is this north wind that chills me ; and if she be
motionless, it is sleep.’ I got a spade from the tool-house, and began to
delve with all my might—it scraped the coffin; I fell to work with my
hands; the wood commenced cracking about the screws; I was on the point of
attaining my object, when it seemed that I heard a sigh from some one above,
close at the edge of the grave, and bending down. ‘If I can only get this
off,’ I muttered, ‘I wish they may shovel in the earth over us
both!’ and I wrenched at it more desperately still. There was another
sigh, close at my ear. I appeared to feel the warm breath of it displacing the
sleet-laden wind. I knew no living thing in flesh and blood was by; but, as
certainly as you perceive the approach to some substantial body in the dark,
though it cannot be discerned, so certainly I felt that Cathy was there: not
under me, but on the earth. A sudden sense of relief flowed from my heart
through every limb. I relinquished my labour of agony, and turned consoled at
once: unspeakably consoled. Her presence was with me: it remained while I
re-filled the grave, and led me home. You may laugh, if you will; but I was
sure I should see her there. I was sure she was with me, and I could not help
talking to her. Having reached the Heights, I rushed eagerly to the door. It
was fastened; and, I remember, that accursed Earnshaw and my wife opposed my
entrance. I remember stopping to kick the breath out of him, and then hurrying
upstairs, to my room and hers. I looked round impatiently—I felt her by
me—I could almost see her, and yet I could not ! I ought to
have sweat blood then, from the anguish of my yearning—from the fervour
of my supplications to have but one glimpse! I had not one. She showed herself,
as she often was in life, a devil to me! And, since then, sometimes more and
sometimes less, I’ve been the sport of that intolerable torture!
Infernal! keeping my nerves at such a stretch that, if they had not resembled
catgut, they would long ago have relaxed to the feebleness of Linton’s.
When I sat in the house with Hareton, it seemed that on going out I should meet
her; when I walked on the moors I should meet her coming in. When I went from
home I hastened to return; she must be somewhere at the Heights, I was
certain! And when I slept in her chamber—I was beaten out of that. I
couldn’t lie there; for the moment I closed my eyes, she was either
outside the window, or sliding back the panels, or entering the room, or even
resting her darling head on the same pillow as she did when a child; and I must
open my lids to see. And so I opened and closed them a hundred times a
night—to be always disappointed! It racked me! I’ve often groaned
aloud, till that old rascal Joseph no doubt believed that my conscience was
playing the fiend inside of me. Now, since I’ve seen her, I’m
pacified—a little. It was a strange way of killing: not by inches, but by
fractions of hairbreadths, to beguile me with the spectre of a hope through
eighteen years!”