“She abandoned them under a delusion,” he answered;
“picturing in me a hero of romance, and expecting unlimited indulgences
from my chivalrous devotion. I can hardly regard her in the light of a rational
creature, so obstinately has she persisted in forming a fabulous notion of my
character and acting on the false impressions she cherished. But, at last, I
think she begins to know me: I don’t perceive the silly smiles and
grimaces that provoked me at first; and the senseless incapability of
discerning that I was in earnest when I gave her my opinion of her infatuation
and herself. It was a marvellous effort of perspicacity to discover that I did
not love her. I believed, at one time, no lessons could teach her that! And yet
it is poorly learnt; for this morning she announced, as a piece of appalling
intelligence, that I had actually succeeded in making her hate me! A positive
labour of Hercules, I assure you! If it be achieved, I have cause to return
thanks. Can I trust your assertion, Isabella? Are you sure you hate me? If I
let you alone for half a day, won’t you come sighing and wheedling to me
again? I daresay she would rather I had seemed all tenderness before you: it
wounds her vanity to have the truth exposed. But I don’t care who knows
that the passion was wholly on one side: and I never told her a lie about it.
She cannot accuse me of showing one bit of deceitful softness. The first thing
she saw me do, on coming out of the Grange, was to hang up her little dog; and
when she pleaded for it, the first words I uttered were a wish that I had the
hanging of every being belonging to her, except one: possibly she took that
exception for herself. But no brutality disgusted her: I suppose she has an
innate admiration of it, if only her precious person were secure from injury!
Now, was it not the depth of absurdity—of genuine idiocy, for that
pitiful, slavish, mean-minded brach to dream that I could love her? Tell your
master, Nelly, that I never, in all my life, met with such an abject thing as
she is. She even disgraces the name of Linton; and I’ve sometimes
relented, from pure lack of invention, in my experiments on what she could
endure, and still creep shamefully cringing back! But tell him, also, to set
his fraternal and magisterial heart at ease: that I keep strictly within the
limits of the law. I have avoided, up to this period, giving her the slightest
right to claim a separation; and, what’s more, she’d thank nobody
for dividing us. If she desired to go, she might: the nuisance of her presence
outweighs the gratification to be derived from tormenting her!”