“Where is Miss Catherine?” I cried hurriedly. “No accident, I
hope?” “At Thrushcross Grange,” he answered; “and I
would have been there too, but they had not the manners to ask me to
stay.” “Well, you will catch it!” I said: “you’ll
never be content till you’re sent about your business. What in the world
led you wandering to Thrushcross Grange?” “Let me get off my wet
clothes, and I’ll tell you all about it, Nelly,” he replied. I bid
him beware of rousing the master, and while he undressed and I waited to put
out the candle, he continued—“Cathy and I escaped from the
wash-house to have a ramble at liberty, and getting a glimpse of the Grange
lights, we thought we would just go and see whether the Lintons passed their
Sunday evenings standing shivering in corners, while their father and mother
sat eating and drinking, and singing and laughing, and burning their eyes out
before the fire. Do you think they do? Or reading sermons, and being catechised
by their man-servant, and set to learn a column of Scripture names, if they
don’t answer properly?” “Probably not,” I responded.
“They are good children, no doubt, and don’t deserve the treatment
you receive, for your bad conduct.” “Don’t cant,
Nelly,” he said: “nonsense! We ran from the top of the Heights to
the park, without stopping—Catherine completely beaten in the race,
because she was barefoot. You’ll have to seek for her shoes in the bog
to-morrow. We crept through a broken hedge, groped our way up the path, and
planted ourselves on a flower-plot under the drawing-room window. The light
came from thence; they had not put up the shutters, and the curtains were only
half closed. Both of us were able to look in by standing on the basement, and
clinging to the ledge, and we saw—ah! it was beautiful—a splendid
place carpeted with crimson, and crimson-covered chairs and tables, and a pure
white ceiling bordered by gold, a shower of glass-drops hanging in silver
chains from the centre, and shimmering with little soft tapers. Old Mr. and
Mrs. Linton were not there; Edgar and his sister had it entirely to
themselves. Shouldn’t they have been happy? We should have thought
ourselves in heaven! And now, guess what your good children were doing?
Isabella—I believe she is eleven, a year younger than Cathy—lay
screaming at the farther end of the room, shrieking as if witches were running
red-hot needles into her. Edgar stood on the hearth weeping silently, and in
the middle of the table sat a little dog, shaking its paw and yelping; which,
from their mutual accusations, we understood they had nearly pulled in two
between them. The idiots! That was their pleasure! to quarrel who should hold a
heap of warm hair, and each begin to cry because both, after struggling to get
it, refused to take it. We laughed outright at the petted things; we did
despise them! When would you catch me wishing to have what Catherine wanted? or
find us by ourselves, seeking entertainment in yelling, and sobbing, and
rolling on the ground, divided by the whole room? I’d not exchange, for a
thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Linton’s at Thrushcross
Grange—not if I might have the privilege of flinging Joseph off the
highest gable, and painting the house-front with Hindley’s blood!”