“I told you we laughed,” he answered. “The Lintons heard us,
and with one accord they shot like arrows to the door; there was silence, and
then a cry, ‘Oh, mamma, mamma! Oh, papa! Oh, mamma, come here. Oh, papa,
oh!’ They really did howl out something in that way. We made frightful
noises to terrify them still more, and then we dropped off the ledge, because
somebody was drawing the bars, and we felt we had better flee. I had Cathy by
the hand, and was urging her on, when all at once she fell down. ‘Run,
Heathcliff, run!’ she whispered. ‘They have let the bull-dog loose,
and he holds me!’ The devil had seized her ankle, Nelly: I heard his
abominable snorting. She did not yell out—no! she would have scorned to
do it, if she had been spitted on the horns of a mad cow. I did, though: I
vociferated curses enough to annihilate any fiend in Christendom; and I got a
stone and thrust it between his jaws, and tried with all my might to cram it
down his throat. A beast of a servant came up with a lantern, at last,
shouting—‘Keep fast, Skulker, keep fast!’ He changed his
note, however, when he saw Skulker’s game. The dog was throttled off; his
huge, purple tongue hanging half a foot out of his mouth, and his pendent lips
streaming with bloody slaver. The man took Cathy up; she was sick: not from
fear, I’m certain, but from pain. He carried her in; I followed,
grumbling execrations and vengeance. ‘What prey, Robert?’ hallooed
Linton from the entrance. ‘Skulker has caught a little girl, sir,’
he replied; ‘and there’s a lad here,’ he added, making a
clutch at me, ‘who looks an out-and-outer! Very like the robbers were for
putting them through the window to open the doors to the gang after all were
asleep, that they might murder us at their ease. Hold your tongue, you
foul-mouthed thief, you! you shall go to the gallows for this. Mr. Linton, sir,
don’t lay by your gun.’ ‘No, no, Robert,’ said the old
fool. ‘The rascals knew that yesterday was my rent-day: they thought to
have me cleverly. Come in; I’ll furnish them a reception. There, John,
fasten the chain. Give Skulker some water, Jenny. To beard a magistrate in his
stronghold, and on the Sabbath, too! Where will their insolence stop? Oh, my
dear Mary, look here! Don’t be afraid, it is but a boy—yet the
villain scowls so plainly in his face; would it not be a kindness to the
country to hang him at once, before he shows his nature in acts as well as
features?’ He pulled me under the chandelier, and Mrs. Linton placed her
spectacles on her nose and raised her hands in horror. The cowardly children
crept nearer also, Isabella lisping—‘Frightful thing! Put him in
the cellar, papa. He’s exactly like the son of the fortune-teller that
stole my tame pheasant. Isn’t he, Edgar?’