“Well, it seems a weary number of hours,” she muttered doubtfully:
“it must be more. I remember being in the parlour after they had
quarrelled, and Edgar being cruelly provoking, and me running into this room
desperate. As soon as ever I had barred the door, utter blackness overwhelmed
me, and I fell on the floor. I couldn’t explain to Edgar how certain I
felt of having a fit, or going raging mad, if he persisted in teasing me! I had
no command of tongue, or brain, and he did not guess my agony, perhaps: it
barely left me sense to try to escape from him and his voice. Before I
recovered sufficiently to see and hear, it began to be dawn, and, Nelly,
I’ll tell you what I thought, and what has kept recurring and recurring
till I feared for my reason. I thought as I lay there, with my head against
that table leg, and my eyes dimly discerning the grey square of the window,
that I was enclosed in the oak-panelled bed at home; and my heart ached with
some great grief which, just waking, I could not recollect. I pondered, and
worried myself to discover what it could be, and, most strangely, the whole
last seven years of my life grew a blank! I did not recall that they had been
at all. I was a child; my father was just buried, and my misery arose from the
separation that Hindley had ordered between me and Heathcliff. I was laid
alone, for the first time; and, rousing from a dismal doze after a night of
weeping, I lifted my hand to push the panels aside: it struck the table-top! I
swept it along the carpet, and then memory burst in: my late anguish was
swallowed in a paroxysm of despair. I cannot say why I felt so wildly wretched:
it must have been temporary derangement; for there is scarcely cause. But,
supposing at twelve years old I had been wrenched from the Heights, and every
early association, and my all in all, as Heathcliff was at that time, and been
converted at a stroke into Mrs. Linton, the lady of Thrushcross Grange, and the
wife of a stranger: an exile, and outcast, thenceforth, from what had been my
world. You may fancy a glimpse of the abyss where I grovelled! Shake your head
as you will, Nelly, you have helped to unsettle me! You should have
spoken to Edgar, indeed you should, and compelled him to leave me quiet! Oh,
I’m burning! I wish I were out of doors! I wish I were a girl again, half
savage and hardy, and free; and laughing at injuries, not maddening under them!
Why am I so changed? why does my blood rush into a hell of tumult at a few
words? I’m sure I should be myself were I once among the heather on those
hills. Open the window again wide: fasten it open! Quick, why don’t you
move?”