Heathcliff bore his degradation pretty well at first, because Cathy taught him
what she learnt, and worked or played with him in the fields. They both
promised fair to grow up as rude as savages; the young master being entirely
negligent how they behaved, and what they did, so they kept clear of him. He
would not even have seen after their going to church on Sundays, only Joseph
and the curate reprimanded his carelessness when they absented themselves; and
that reminded him to order Heathcliff a flogging, and Catherine a fast from
dinner or supper. But it was one of their chief amusements to run away to the
moors in the morning and remain there all day, and the after punishment grew a
mere thing to laugh at. The curate might set as many chapters as he pleased for
Catherine to get by heart, and Joseph might thrash Heathcliff till his arm
ached; they forgot everything the minute they were together again: at least the
minute they had contrived some naughty plan of revenge; and many a time
I’ve cried to myself to watch them growing more reckless daily, and I not
daring to speak a syllable, for fear of losing the small power I still retained
over the unfriended creatures. One Sunday evening, it chanced that they were
banished from the sitting-room, for making a noise, or a light offence of the
kind; and when I went to call them to supper, I could discover them nowhere. We
searched the house, above and below, and the yard and stables; they were
invisible: and, at last, Hindley in a passion told us to bolt the doors, and
swore nobody should let them in that night. The household went to bed; and I,
too anxious to lie down, opened my lattice and put my head out to hearken,
though it rained: determined to admit them in spite of the prohibition, should
they return. In a while, I distinguished steps coming up the road, and the
light of a lantern glimmered through the gate. I threw a shawl over my head and
ran to prevent them from waking Mr. Earnshaw by knocking. There was Heathcliff,
by himself: it gave me a start to see him alone.