I could scarcely refrain from smiling at this antipathy to the poor fellow; who
was a well-made, athletic youth, good-looking in features, and stout and
healthy, but attired in garments befitting his daily occupations of working on
the farm and lounging among the moors after rabbits and game. Still, I thought
I could detect in his physiognomy a mind owning better qualities than his
father ever possessed. Good things lost amid a wilderness of weeds, to be sure,
whose rankness far over-topped their neglected growth; yet, notwithstanding,
evidence of a wealthy soil, that might yield luxuriant crops under other and
favourable circumstances. Mr. Heathcliff, I believe, had not treated him
physically ill; thanks to his fearless nature, which offered no temptation to
that course of oppression: he had none of the timid susceptibility that would
have given zest to ill-treatment, in Heathcliff’s judgment. He appeared
to have bent his malevolence on making him a brute: he was never taught to read
or write; never rebuked for any bad habit which did not annoy his keeper; never
led a single step towards virtue, or guarded by a single precept against vice.
And from what I heard, Joseph contributed much to his deterioration, by a
narrow-minded partiality which prompted him to flatter and pet him, as a boy,
because he was the head of the old family. And as he had been in the habit of
accusing Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, when children, of putting the
master past his patience, and compelling him to seek solace in drink by what he
termed their “offald ways,” so at present he laid the whole burden
of Hareton’s faults on the shoulders of the usurper of his property. If
the lad swore, he wouldn’t correct him: nor however culpably he behaved.
It gave Joseph satisfaction, apparently, to watch him go the worst lengths: he
allowed that the lad was ruined: that his soul was abandoned to perdition; but
then he reflected that Heathcliff must answer for it. Hareton’s blood
would be required at his hands; and there lay immense consolation in that
thought. Joseph had instilled into him a pride of name, and of his lineage; he
would, had he dared, have fostered hate between him and the present owner of
the Heights: but his dread of that owner amounted to superstition; and he
confined his feelings regarding him to muttered innuendoes and private
comminations. I don’t pretend to be intimately acquainted with the mode
of living customary in those days at Wuthering Heights: I only speak from
hearsay; for I saw little. The villagers affirmed Mr. Heathcliff was near , and a cruel hard landlord to his tenants; but the house, inside,
had regained its ancient aspect of comfort under female management, and the
scenes of riot common in Hindley’s time were not now enacted within its
walls. The master was too gloomy to seek companionship with any people, good or
bad; and he is yet.